I was the officer in charge of optical
instrumentation at Vandenberg Air Force
Base in the 1369 photo squadron and as
such it was my duty to supervise the
instrumentation photography of every
missile that went down the Western Test
range in those days we called them ICBMs
intercontinental z' because most of them
blew up on launch and our job was to
determine why they blew up to provide
the engineers good enough and
engineering sequential photography so
they could see what was wrong with what
the bird as it took off in flight what
we photographed up there affected me for
the rest of my life and made a huge
impact on my understanding of the
universe and of governmental
manipulation of of our minds the purpose
of them was they were ballistic missiles
they were to deliver nuclear weapons on
targets that's what they were what they
were there for we weren't launching real
nuclear weapons we were watching dummy
warheads they were the exact size shape
and dimension and weight of a nuclear
warhead for my stunning achievement in
finding a place where I could look back
at Vandenberg Air Force Base from up
north and for figuring out how to
transmit the timing up there and for
getting the the thing set up I was
awarded the Air Force guided missile
insignia it was the first photographic
officer in the Air Force to get the they
called it the missile badge it was the
highly coveted thing at the time was
definitely in 1964 because florins
Mansmann confirmed that and he knew he
had written it down and knew the exact
date of it they counted down the missile
we heard engine ignition liftoff when
who the missile was under way and we
were looking down south south west and
the missile popped up through the fog it
was just beautiful and I hollered there
it is then our guys on our m/45 tracking
mount with 180 inch lenses on it got it
and the big bu telescope swung over and
got it and we followed the thing and
sure enough we could see all three
stages of powered Flyers they burned out
and dropped away and then of course to
our naked I always thought it was a
smoke trail going off into subspace as
it hit it
toward its target which was Annie we
talked Island and he we talked at all so
we what beating shouted and heard the
film rap off in the in the the BU
telescope and figured well that was our
first big deal we got it we sent the
film back down to Vandenberg and I don't
know exactly how long it was after the
the event it might have been a day or
two I was called in to major major
Mansmann office at the first strategic
aerospace division headquarters and I
walked into his office and they had a
screen and a 16 millimeter projector set
up there was a couch and major Mansmann
said sit down and there were two guys as
I recall two guys in grey suits civilian
clothes which was fairly unusual um and
a major advancement said watch this and
turned on the film projector and I
watched the screen and there was the
launch from the day or two before it at
Big Sur it was quite exciting because of
the length of the telescope as the Atlas
missile entered the frame we could see
the whole third stage which is which has
two rocket nozzles like this and one in
the center or gimballed one in the
center filling our frame from a hundred
and about 160 miles that was pretty
exciting optics we watched that stage
burn out we watched the second stage
burnout we watched a third stage burnout
and end of the frame came something else
it flew into the frame like this and it
shot a beam of light at the warhead
which is represented by my thumb here
now remember all this stuff is flying at
several thousand miles an hour so this
thing fires a beam of light at the
warhead hits it and then this thing
flies up like this meanwhile we're all
going like this fires another beam of
light goes around like this we're going
like this fires another beam of light
goes down like this far is another beam
of light and then flies out the way it
came in and the warhead tumbles out of
the of space
now I saw that I don't give a goddamn
what anybody else says about it I saw
that on film fill class can kiss my ass
he wasn't there I was now when the
lights came on major Mansmann turned
around to looked at me and said were you
guys screwing around up there and I said
no sir and he said what was that and I
said it looks to me like we got a UFO
now the thing that we saw this object
that flew in was circular was shaped
like a - saucers cup like this with a
ping-pong ball on top the Bema light
came out of the ping-pong ball that's
what I saw on film now major Mansmann
said to me after some discussion about
it and he said you are never to speak of
this again as far as you're concerned
this never happened and I said well and
he said I don't need to emphasize the
you know the dire consequences of a
security breach do I and I said no sir
and he said fine this never happened
so I started for the door he said wait a
minute he said years from now if you're
ever forced by someone to talk about
this you are to tell them it was laser
strikes laser tracking strikes well in
1964 we didn't have any laser tracking
strikes we don't have any laser tracking
at all lasers were in their infancy in
1964 there were playthings and
laboratories so I said yes sir and
walked out and that was the last I
talked about it for 18 years I didn't
talk about it to anybody at Vanderburgh
Air Force Base nobody in my squadron
knew about it nobody saw the film but me
my commanding officer major USS Clement
jr. didn't see it my operations officer
Captain Kenneth R Callaghan didn't see
it
his assistant lieutenant Ronald Oh
Baylor didn't see it their assistant
Chief Warrant Officer gyeom Spooner
didn't see it nobody in my squadron saw
it and I didn't talk about it to anybody
under direct
major Lawrence J Mannesmann jr.
consequently no one at Santa BER that I
know of knows anything about this
that sounds real suspicious doesn't it
somebody should have seen it somebody
should have talked about it well they
didn't because in those days I didn't
talk about top secret things that I was
told not to talk about there are things
that I know about that I did in the
service that I won't talk about to you
now because they're top secret and I
could get my ass in trouble for talking
about him after 18 years it occurred to
me that I could talk about this one
incident because nobody ever told me it
was classified top secret if you parse
what major Mansmann said he said you're
to say this never happened well that's
not classifying the top secret is it
you